Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)                                              - Safer

participation of Retail investors in Algorithmic trading

Disclaimer:

"This document/FAQ summarizes the queries relating to the above topic(s) in a concise

manner for the Member's ease of understanding. The information and/ or content (collectively

`Information') provided herein is general information only and NSE has issued                    detailed

circulars to such effect from time to time. While reasonable care has been exercised to ensure

that the Information is adequate and reliable, no representation is made by NSE as to its

accuracy, correctness or completeness and NSE, its affiliates  and subsidiaries accepts no

liability of whatsoever nature for any direct/indirect or consequential loss, including without

limitation any loss of profits, arising from reliance on this Information. In the event of any

difference/ inconsistencies between the Information as provided herein and in the circulars,

the Information in the circulars shall be construed as final and binding. NSE does not in any

way control, warrant or provide guarantee on the suitability of the Information for the readers

usage. Th e readers are expected to undertake their own diligence and are advised not to solely

rely on this document. Any such reliance shall be at the reader's own risk. Nothing stated

herein shall bind NSE, in any manner whatsoever."

                                                                                                Page 1 of 3
                      Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)

1) What are the Empanelment criteria for Algo Provider?

The detailed criteria for empanelment of Algo Provider have been mentioned in NSE

circular no. NSE/INVG/70309 dated September 19, 2025      - 'Corrigendum to " Safer

participation of Retail investors in Algorithmic trading         ­ Detailed Operational

Modalities" ­ Update ")

2) As per criteria mentioned in para 4.2 in NSE circular  NSE/INVG/70309 dated

September 19, 2025 (Corrigendum to " Safer participation of Retail investors in

Algorithmic trading ­ Detailed Operational Modalities" ­ Update ), who has to

provide the declaration of cyber / adverse technical incident for the previous                 3

years

As per the empanelment criteria, the Algo Provider shall provide a self - declaration of

any cyber / adverse technical incident for the previous 3 years. This declaration      is not

required from any auditor and shall be provided by the Algo Provider s on their

letterhead.

3) Will static IP be required for retail customers coming via algo vendors         ?

Client static IP will be required only in case of Tech savvy Investor using API        for

placing orders.

4) Whether a Research Analyst (RA ) wishing to deploy any black box algo will first
    need to become an Algo Provider? Further, can an Algo Provider host black box
    algos of multiple third -party R As ?

As per SEBI circular     SEBI /HO/MIRSD/MIRSD -PoD/P/CIR/2025/0000013 dated

February 04, 2025 , in case of Black Box Algos, " the Algo Provider shall Register as a

Research Analyst and maintain a detailed research report for each such algo and

confirm to the exchanges that such report has been maintained ".

Thus, any RA wishing to deploy any Black Box Algo shall be required to become an
Algo Provider before being able to provide a Black Box Algo.

Further, as per para 14 of NSE circular  NSE/INVG/69255 dated July 22, 2025, all

Algos developed by Algo Providers need to be hosted on the Trading Member's server.

Hence, the Algo Provider hosting black box algos of multiple third          -party RAs is not

possible.

5) What are the hosting requirements for retail algorithmic trading strategies?

As per Exchange Circular NSE/INVG/69255 dated July 22, 2025 (Annexure I, Para

14), it is mandated that "all the strategies shall be run on the brokers servers. The

order messages shall be originated from brokers server." This requirement is central

to ensu ring the broker's control over risk management and data                  confidentiality.

However, Tech Savvy client is required to host the Algo using a static IP at their end

                                                                                      Page 2 of 3
    where Algo logic reside s instead of hosting the Algo on Trading Member's          cloud
    server .

6) Is a static IP address mandatory for all individual retail clients using an API?

    Client static IP is required only in case of Tech savvy Investor using API.

7) How should algorithmic orders from Internet Based Trading (IBT) and Securities
    Trading through Wireless Technology (STWT) platforms be tagged?

Retail investors are allowed to trade using Algorithmic Trading through Client Direct

API which is provided by broker to its clients to send the order messages through API

and Member frontend for retail algo i.e. Internet or Mobile based applications . In such

cases, the tagging shall be - first 12 digits would be "444444444444" and              the 13 th

digit would be "0", or "2", or "4" .

8) Is it permissible for clients to place basket orders for unregistered algos through
    client APIs?

As per the framework (refer Annexure I, Para 2.8 of Exchange Circular NSE/INVG/69255
dated July 22, 2025), all orders received via API from clients are considered Algo orders
and require appropriate tagging including standardised tagging for cases where the OPS
is within the threshold of 10 OPS.

9) Whether Tech Savy client is required to participate in monthly mandatory mock
    as per SEBI guidelines

As the responsibility of outcome (Profit/Loss) is with the Tach -savvy client itself since

the Algo logic is of the Tech savvy client and the RMS is the responsibility of the

Trading Member, i ndividual Tech savvy client is not required to participate in the

monthly mock trading sessions, rest all the entities are required to       participate in

mandatory mock sessions as per SEBI circular

SEBI/HO/MRD1/DSAP/CIR/P/2020/234 dated November 24, 2020 and NSE circular

NSE/MSD/67753 dated April 29, 2025

10) An Algo platform developed by empanelled Algo vendor is hosted on Trading
    Member's infrastructure. Whose static IP shall be required in case Retail clients
    are trading through the Trading Member using such Algo platform developed by
    the Algo Provider.

With reference to NSE circular NSE/INVG/67858 dated May 05, 2025, it would be the
static IP of the Trading Member's server.

11) Are Market orders and IOC orders allowed through Algo?

As per point 8.1.1.12 of NSE circular NSE/MSD/67753 dated April 29, 2025               , " Algo

orders with order type as Market Order are not permitted " and as per point 8.1.2.1 of

NSE circular NSE/MSD/67753 dated April 29, 2025 , "Immediate Or Cancel (IOC) and

Market orders shall not be allowed to be placed using algorithmic trading              " in the

Commodity segment.

                                                                                     Page 3 of 3
